in the previous videos we put together
almost all the pieces you need in order
to implement and trade in your network
there's just one loss idea I need to
share of you which is the idea of random
initialization when you're running an
algorithm like gradient descent or also
the advanced optimization algorithms we
need to pick some initial value for the
parameters theta so for the advanced
optimization algorithm you know it
assumes that you will pass it some
initial value for the parameters theta
now let's consider gradient descent for
that you know we also need to initialize
theta plus to something and then we can
slowly take steps that go down the hill
using gradient descent to go down hill
to minimize the function J of theta so
what can we set the initial value of
theta to is it possible to set the
initial value of theta to the vector of
all zeros where is this worked okay when
we were using logistic regression
initializing all of your parameters to
zero actually does not work when you're
trading on your own network consider
training the following neural network
and let's say we initialize all the
parameters in the network to zero and if
you do that then well you what that
means is that at the initialization this
blue weight the clogging of blue is
going to equal to that way to serve that
both 0 and this weight the coloring in
in red is equal to that weight in red
and also this way to lump which I'm
coloring in a green is going to be equal
to the value of that weight and what
that means is that both of your hidden
units a 1 and a 2 are going to compute
be computing the same function of your
inputs and thus you end up with for
every one of your training examples what
you end up with a 2 1 equals a 2 2 and
moreover because a not Michelle this in
too much detail but because these
outgoing weights are the same you can
also show that the Delta values are also
going to be the same so concretely
with Delta 1 1 Delta 2 1 equals Delta 2
2 and if you work through the math
further what you can show is that the
partial derivatives with respect to your
parameters will satisfy the following
that the partial derivative of the cost
function with respect to I'm writing out
the derivatives respect to these two
blue weights in your network you find
that these two partial derivatives are
going to be equal to each other and so
what this means is that even after say 1
gradient descent update you're going to
update say this first blue weights with
your learning rate times this and you're
going to update the second blue rates
with some learning rate times this but
what this means is that even after one
gradient descent update those two blue
weights those two blue color parameters
will end up the same as each other so
there'll be some nonzero value now but
this value will equal to that value and
similarly even after one gradient
descent update this value would equal to
that value I'll be some nonzero values
just at the two red values of equal to
each other and similarly the two green
ways well they'll both change values but
they both end up the same value as each
other so after you update the parameters
corresponding to the inputs going to
each of the hidden to hidden units
identical that's just saying that the
two green weights is no stranger to
racism saying the two blue weights are
still the same and what that means is
that even after one iteration of safe
gradient descent you find that your two
hidden units are still computing exactly
the same function at the input so you
still have this a 1 2 equals a 2 2 and
so you're back to this case and as you
keep running gradient descent the three
ways the two blue weights will stay the
same as each other
the two red ways to stay in stand each
other in two green ways to stay the same
and what this means is that your neural
network really can't compute very
interesting functions right imagine that
you had um not only two hidden units but
imagine that you had many many hidden
units then what does the same is that
all of your hidden units are computing
the exact same feature all of the hidden
units are computing the exact same
function of the input and this is a
highly redundant representation because
that means that you find the logistic
regression you they don't really get to
see only one feature because all of
these are the same and this prevents
your neural network from they learning
something interesting in order to get
around this problem the way we
initialize the parameters of a neural
network therefore is with random
initialization concretely the problem we
saw on the previous slide is sometimes
called the problem of symmetric way
instead of the way it's all being the
same and so this random initialization
is how we perform symmetry breaking so
what we do is we initialize each value
of theta to a random number between
minus epsilon and Epsilon so this is a
notation to me numbers between minus
epsilon and plus Epsilon
so my weights or my parameters are all
gonna be randomly initialized between
minus epsilon and plus Epsilon the way I
write code to do this in octave is I'm I
said you know theta want to be equal to
this so this R + 10 by 11 that's how you
compute a random 10 by 11 dimensional
matrix and all the values are between 0
& 1
so these are going to be roll numbers
that take on any continuous values
between 0 and 1 and so if you take a
number between 0 & 1 x 2 x in the
epsilon then minus in the epsilon that
you end up with a number that's between
minus epsilon and plus Epsilon
and incidentally this epsilon here has
nothing to do with the epsilon that we
were using when we were doing gradient
checking so when we're doing the America
gradient checking there we were adding
some values of epsilon to theta this is
you know unrelated value of epsilon
which is 1/2 noting it knit 2 epsilon
just to distinguish it from the value of
epsilon we were using in gradient
checking and similarly if you want to
initialize theta 2 to a random one by
the 11 matrix you can do so using this
piece of code here
so to summarize to trade in your network
where you should do is randomly
initialize the ways to you know small
values close to zero between minus
epsilon and plus Epsilon say and then
implement back-propagation do gradient
checking and use you think gradient
descent or one of the advanced
optimization algorithms to try to
minimize J of theta as a function of the
parameters data starting from this
randomly chosen initial value for the
parameters and by doing symmetry
breaking which is this process hopefully
gradient sent or the advanced
optimization algorithms we'll be able to
find a good value of theta